in this course we're not going to go
deep into
all of the defining qualities of the
smart contracts that you could use on
ethereum we're going to be using a
marketplace to mint and sell
our nfts to simplify the process
but
it would not be
smart for us to not quickly look at hey
what are the standards
that are used for nft minting now that
we know that smart contracts these
pieces of code that run on ethereum are
what power nfts
and so i quickly wanted to touch on
erc721
it is the first standard for nfts on
ethereum so it's the first type of like
smart contract
or standard of smart contract rather
that was used for nfds on ethereum
think of it like a smart contract
template
it basically outlines all of the rules
that need to be followed for
nfts
on
ethereum as a smart contract now you can
extend upon this you could even change
it but it is viewed as a standard
because when you follow the standard you
know what you're getting right if people
build upon the standard then there is
trust and through trust
you know that your ownership is secured
so this type of smart contract well it
creates and keeps track of ownership of
the nfts that it has created so when you
transact with the smart contract that
was based on 721
you know that certain principles have
been followed to ensure that your
ownership of what you're purchasing
against that smart contract because
remember a smart contract is nothing
more than a wallet so when you interact
with it
you were giving it money and it is
giving you well money or rather ethereum
and it is giving you something in return
and that's something in return that it
is giving you
it is tracking your ownership on that
smart contract
of the non-fungible asset and this is
where digital art kind of comes in now
does it need to be digital art not
necessarily it could track your
ownership against something else as well
but in the concept of digital art we're
tracking the ownership of digital
right
so
basically the smart contract when you
interact with it you give it ethereum
right to the wallet
and it in the code
will do things
to either mint or generate an nft
in this case
the most
valuable use case is digital art and
that transaction is secure because we
know that this contract
builds certain standards into the smart
contract there are certain pieces of
code that are by default in the smart
contract that give you trust now we'll
be linking the resources to erc721 so
you can go read the specification if you
want or some high level documentation
around it but the reason that we wanted
to touch on these smart contract
standards is because at the end of the
day anyone can build any smart contract
right it's just code it's just code that
goes on ethereum but through
standardization like 721 we now ensure
that we have trust because people are
following
a public standard that is open
and that you can view otherwise there
could be any type of code in that smart
contract right so there's there's a
certain validity that comes with
implementing against that template